 Seat Back a Take Will Iran Curb to Efforts That Fears Raises Fight ISIS
 2014 11, SANGERSEPT. E. DAVID By
 
 instead. it enhance or term, second his define would hoped once had he legacy the of him deprive will it whether is mystery The office. in years final his of priorities global the reorders Syria and Iraq in State Islamic the defeat to battle lengthy a in engage to decision Obama’s President — WASHINGTON
 
 weapon. nuclear a obtaining from Iran preventing clear: been has East Middle the in priority 1 No. Obama’s Mr. now, Until
 
 president. the from concessions extract to leverage as it use would States, United the as ISIS against fight the of side same the on themselves finding Iranians, the that is fear Their priority. that from distraction a was ISIS that argued immediately dialogue,” “strategic regular their for week this Washington in arrived happenstance by who officials, Israeli
 
 impact.” greater far “with said, he problem,” 50-year a is Iran nuclear “A group. extremist Sunni the describe to employs administration Obama the acronym the using night, Wednesday on nation the addressed Obama Mr. before hours few a said minister, affairs strategic Israel’s Steinitz, Yuval problem,” five-year a is “ISIL
 
 Photo
 
 Times York New The for Bruce Andrea Credit priorities. global Obama’s President reordered has ISIS against fight The week. last Iraq, Amerli, in members militia Shiite
 dominance. regional for ambitions Iran’s bolster would operation American new the that administration Obama the warned officials Israeli Other
 
 executed. well is night Wednesday on described he strategy the if region the in credibility American re-establish to chance a have may East Middle the of bog the of out way a for looking was he that clear made years five for who president a that well: as countertheory a is there But fuel. nuclear produce to capacity its expand vastly to time that used Iran and — Afghanistan in war the notably — things many from it distracted ago years 11 Iraq invade to decision administration’s Bush The right. be to prove may Steinitz Mr.
 
 course.” off go not do goals broader administration’s the sure make to checks, rudder constant require to going is that But region. the in investment an of something be will it chance the “There’s Bush. W. George of that as well as — admires most he says Obama Mr. coalition-builder the — Bush George President first the of administration the in served who Haass, N. Richard said capital,” political generate could it effectively, acting as seen is States United the and well, goes this “If
 
 worried. and calendar the at looked they ISIS, of rise the before Even aides. security national top former and current Obama’s Mr. haunts most that course off veering of fear the is It
 
 Asia.” in underinvested and East Middle the in overinvested were we which in world a inherited “We way: this it described often Obama, Mr. to adviser security national former a Donilon, Tom priorities. American “rebalancing” to contribution long-term greatest his as Pacific the to focus American of reorientation the saw once Obama Mr.
 
 sinkhole. military a and drag economic an was East Middle the implication, By rise. China’s manages it how in lie prosperity and interests economic long-term America’s that argued Obama Mr. rebalancing, the conduct to out setting In
 
 cyberattacks? and warming global like threats longer-term on world the focus to desire his Or Russia? Putin’s V. Vladimir contain to effort, long-term another of part Europe, Eastern in NATO bolster to ago week a just made he commitment the with that square he would How Syria? and Iraq in fight the up ramping while — out laid has Pentagon the goal the — Pacific the in is might military America’s of percent 60 that ensure he would How strategy: his of cost opportunity the about nothing said Obama Mr. Wednesday, on speech his in And others. several with along stalled, has effort the that sense broad a been has there year, past the over Yet
 
 Pakistan. inside Taliban Pakistani the and Qaeda Al against authorities, covert-action under operation, larger a run has C.I.A. the while ISIS, against operation the to compared Obama Mr. efforts two the Somalia, and Yemen in program counterterrorism a maintained has Pentagon the that note They exclusive. mutually not are efforts the that suggested has team security national Obama’s Mr. far, So
 
 Laden. bin Osama and cells terrorist pirates, against forces special of use the and facilities, nuclear Iran’s on cyberattack a Yemen, and Pakistan in targets against attacks drone of hundreds included which term, first his in used president the that strategy footprint” “light the beyond goes It scale. different a of effort an requires ISIS destroying ultimately and degrading of goal the But
 
 attention. constant and time take will Arabia, Saudi in base new a at forces Arab training and coalition, a sustaining and building which in effort, sustained more far a described Wednesday on Obama Mr.
 
 do. to like would he all do to able be will States United the how understand to hard is it budget, Pentagon the shrink to commitment his from away backs Obama Mr. Unless Asia. in power of shifts grinding slow, the from it distract East Middle the in blowups urgent the let to seems always America that war Iraq the during noted general Chinese retired recently One news. good likely most is this Chinese, the For
 
 story main the reading Continue
 Comments Recent
 
 ago minutes 23
 change. a What places. two on focus even can't Now, wars. two fight to able be to used We
 Nieman Lucious
 
 ago minutes 23
 peace... domestic find not does America If economy. US the does as slows commerce global bay, at disruptors trade the keep not does America If
 Smith Stafford
 
 ago minutes 23
 infantile... truly how demonstrates objective policy foreign foremost Obama's is device nuclear sort some creating from Iran preventing That
 Comments All See
 comment a Write
 question. complex more far a is Iran affect will this How
 
 ground. the on Force Quds elite their put have reportedly who Iranians, the as fight the of side same the on them puts certainly say, officials administration senior effort, new The journalists. and experts policy foreign of stream a for held has Obama Mr. that strategy his of previews off-the-record the at and Room Situation the inside conversation of subject frequent a been has it But speech. his in Iran mentioned never Obama Mr.
 
 Syria. of al-Assad Bashar President to referring Wednesday, on said official senior one force,” air Assad’s be to plan we than more any battle, this in force air Iran’s be to plan don’t “We
 
 Tehran. with negotiating are that powers six of coalition the from away Russia split to trying is Iran deal, trade and energy new reported a With program. nuclear its over negotiations the in room maneuvering it give will imperative newest America’s whether testing already are Iranians the But
 
 uranium. enrich to ability Iran’s of fate the deadline: 24 Nov. a by resolved be to supposed is that issue main the on ground give to plan not do they that clear made have leaders Iran’s And Agency. Energy Atomic International the to program their of dimensions military suspected about material over turn to deadlines missed have Iranians The
 
 illusion.” an is it that, think do they “If sanctions. enforcing for responsibility had and year, last until government Tehran the with team negotiating American the of part was who Institution, Brookings the of Einhorn Robert said negotiations,” nuclear the in accommodating more us make will this that and ISIS defeat help to them need we think well may Iranians “The
 
 cause. mutual a Washington and Tehran give should that said, official administration one extremists, Sunni defeating in interest” of “commonality a is There action. coordinating not but ISIS, about Iran with “communicating” is it says It compartmentalized. issues the keep to trying is far so administration The
 
 imagined. had he one the like little looks that office in months 28 last Obama’s Mr. for agenda policy foreign a of part just complex, is battle regional a in side same the taking and ambitions nuclear Iran’s confronting simultaneously in required dance the But
